#I2C
##INTRODUCTION
-I2C is a two-wire serial communication protocol using a serial data line (SDA) and a serial clock line (SCL). The
protocol supports multiple target devices on a communication bus and can also support multiple controllers that
send and receive commands and data. Communication is sent in byte packets with a unique address for each
target device.
## I2C Physical Layer
-One of the reasons that I2C is a common protocol is because there are only two lines used for communication.
The first line is SCL, which is a serial clock primarily controlled by the controller device. SCL is used to
synchronously clock data in or out of the target device. The second line is SDA, which is the serial data line.
SDA is used to transmit data to or from target devices. For example, a controller device can send configuration
data and output codes to a target digital-to-analog converter (DAC), or a target analog-to-digital converter (ADC)
can send conversion data back to the controller device.
-An I2C controller device starts and stops communication, which removes the potential problem of bus contention.
Communication with a target device is sent through a unique address on the bus. This allows for both multiple
controllers and multiple target devices on the I2C bus.
##Open-Drain Connection
-The open-drain connections are used on both SDA and SCL lines and connect to an NMOS transistor. This
open-drain connection controls the I2C communication line and pulls the line low or releases the line high. The
open-drain refers to the NMOS bus connection when the NMOS is turned OFF. 
-To set the voltage level of the SDA or SCL line, the NMOS is set on or off. When the NMOS is on, the device
pulls current through the resistor to ground. This pulls the open-drain line low. Typically, the transition from
high to low for I2C is a fast transition as the NMOS pulls down on SDA or SCL. The speed of the transition is
determined by the NMOS drive strength and any bus capacitance on SDA or SCL.
-Because of capacitance on the I2C communication line, the SDA and SCL lines discharge with an exponential
settling RC time constant depending on the size of the pullup resistor and capacitance on the I2C bus. Higher
capacitance limits the speed of I2C communication, the number of devices, and the physical distance between
devices on the bus. A smaller pullup resistor has a faster rise time, but requires more power for communication.
A larger pullup resistor has a slower rise time leading to slower communication, but requires less power.
##WORKING
-I2C communication is initiated from the controller device with an I2C START condition. If the bus is open, an I2C
controller claims the bus for communication by sending an I2C START. To do this, the controller device first pulls
the SDA low and then pulls the SCL low. This sequence indicates that the controller device is claiming the I2C
bus for communication, forcing other controller devices on the bus to hold their communication.
When the controller device has completed communication, the SCL releases high and then the SDA releases
high. This indicates an I2C STOP condition. This releases the bus to allow other controllers to communicate or
to allow for the same controller to communicate with another device.
-At the beginning of the address frame, the controller device initiates a START condition. The controller device
first pulls SDA low and then pulls SCL low for the START. This allows the controller device to claim the bus
without contention from other controller devices on the bus. Each I2C target device has an associated I2C
address. When beginning communications with a particular target device the controller uses the target device
address to send or receive data in the following I2C frames. The I2C address consists of 7 bits and devices on
the I2C bus, each have a unique address on the bus.
-The address frame is followed by one or more data frames. These frames are sent one byte at a time. After each
data byte is transferred, there is another ACK. If the data byte is a write to the device, then the target device
pulls the SDA low to ACK the transfer. If the data byte is a read from the device, the controller pulls the SDA low
to acknowledge the data has been received. The ACK is a useful debugging tool. The absence of this bit can
indicate that the target peripheral did not receive the proper I2C address for communication, or that the controller
peripheral did not receive the expected data.
-After the communication is completed, the controller issues an I2C STOP condition. SCL is first released and
then SDA is released. The controller uses the STOP to indicate that the communication is completed and the I2C
bus is released.
-This is the basic protocol for any I2C communication between the controller device and the target device.
Communication can consist of more than one byte of data. In some cases where a target device has multiple
data and configuration registers, a read from a device can begin with a write to the device to indicate which
register is to be read. The following sections show examples on how to read from and write to different data
converter devices.
